We'll come back in in this lesson.
We're going to be using a pre-built Jaison quiz format file and we're going to be building out a quiz
dynamically.
So this quiz is available at my house on dot com forward slash bin's 12.
Q S. AF and basically So it's got some questions it's got the answers to the questions and it tells
us which answer is correct.
So correct one.
And that's the format so the question answers and possible answers and then whichever one is correct
and so on and so on.
Let's go to a series of questions.
So the challenge is going to be to generate this randomly from a file pull it into our javascript within
this format and then have it actually function as a quiz.
And then we're going to actually calculate the results the correct answers.
And we're going to produce a summary of how the user performed on the quiz.
At the end of the quiz.
So let's go ahead and build this out.
So open up your editor and we're going to use that and get Jason format that we saw earlier and this
is the format that we can use in order to pull back that quiz information.
So let's I've already got it set up so I've got a window onload I indictees So whenever our window loads
we run this function where we've got the Einheit.
So what we want to do is we want to get Jason information right off the bat and we want to build our
quiz from it.
So we have an option here to pass in the U r l.
So let's do that and we're going to do that same format where we're going to do get Giese on so we're
going to make use of this file once again.
And this is a great file to have within your library because you could always just simply utilize it
whenever you need to.
So let's set that up.
And then with within
here first thing we need to pass is that parameter.
So then we go and grab that you Earl and place that into the get Jason.
So first thing we're doing is loading via the L and then the next thing that we do is we need to set
up the load function.
So let's create that function and this function we're going to take back that response.
So whatever that response data is and then within the function itself let's make use of that response
data.
So for now let's just console log out whatever we're getting as a response.
And that's always the first thing just to make sure that you're able to properly pull that information
into your javascript.
So now save it refresh it.
And there we go.
So nice and a readable format.
Thanks to our consul and javascript objects.
So it's all ready to go now and next thing that we need to do is we can make use of it within our javascript
and we need to build this quiz.
So this is going to take.
This is going to take looping through all of these and basically loading it into the javascript so that
we can run the quiz.
So we load the data into our javascript application and then we make use of that data as the user goes
through there.
So at the end of the day it's not going to really matter.
This all has to be dynamic enough that it doesn't matter how many questions there are here how many
answers as long as we know which ones are correct.
As long as we know the question and as long as we know the total length and once we've finished moving
through those then we know that the quiz is over and we have to provide the summary.
So we need to track all of that information in the black in the back as well.
So first of all let's load this into a global object because we want to make use of it at any point
within our script.
So let's set up a variable.
And we're going to call it my data.
And so this is just going to be an empty object.
And then once we get that information let's get my data and we're going to equal it to whatever the
responses.
So that way whenever the page loads that whenever we want to access that information we can just use
my data.
So even after the Jasons done we're all ready to go and we're all ready to access it within Javascript.
So first of that we need to do is we need a starting point.
So let's add in a function here.
So this function is going to build out the page build up to quizz page.
So let's call it build page.
And we're also going to use some other global variables as to what page we're on and how many are left
and so on.
So let's set those up so page by default will be 0.
And then as we move through to the next question we're going to know what content we need to output.
So Page is going to dynamically change as we loop through the values.
So what we need to do is we need to first present a question.
So let's do build page.
So after we load Jaison we've got the response in the data we build the page.
And this is all dependent on whenever we get the response information back and we can't do building
the page before we have the data.
And that's why order is really important when working with Ajax and Jaison because sometimes you do
need to wait in order for that data to load.
And in order to make use of it in your page.
So always make sure that you're looking at the order of the content and as it's loading into your page.
So build page so we know that we need to access that information.
So let's set up a variable and we'll call it we'll just call it piece.
So this is going to be all of the contents that we need within this page.
So this is my data and we know that we're going to page it let's just console log that for now just
to make sure that.
So this is where I really do use console log a lot because I want to make sure that I've got everything
correct.
So we know that we've got our page there and we're building the page.
So let's let's update output here.
So I'm going to create another variable.
Call it output and we'll do a document get element by id and output one.
So I'm going to grab that output one content.
As object output and let's build out our page so each to M-L And so that blank blanket first and say
let's build out our h team L So h him out equals h to male plus.
So first of all we know we need that question.
So let's set up a div and the first div is going to be the question
asking him to do it with single quotes so as to div and let's add in the question.
So basically we know that if we do the question we'll output the question value there.
So it's close that off a quarter around there's one.
So there we go.
So we've got our first question showing up.
Let's just make sure that that's working properly.
And we need to output it still.
So lastly let's do output inner h t m l and we are going to use h t m l and we're going to put that
h tim l object that we're building.
So there we go.
So we've got our questions so what color is an apple.
So after this question let's add a question mark there.
So the next thing that we know we cut a loop through the possible answers.
We've got three possible answers and this also has to be or should be dynamic.
So as we're building up this h to M L we need to loop through these.
So what I want you to do now pause the video and add in three postes or add in a loop to output the
possible answers to the question and then afterwards.
I also want you to add event listeners to those and I'll show you how to do that.
So one of the best ways that we might want to do is we just might want to a click event to output one
and then grab that object as we did earlier.
So good puzzle video.
Try that out and I'll show you the solution coming up.
So let's go ahead and create a for loop so set we'll use X as a variable and we're going to loop while
x is less than p and that value was answers.
So P answers so I know that we've got an array and answers and that means that we also have a link there.
So let's do that loop increment X and now let's update each team Mel so we can do the same thing that
we have here.
We've done a number of choices here because the thing that we need to make sure is that the user gets
the correct one.
So we could do it within a block here and as long as we can identify which question it is that they're
selecting that we can also identify the answer.
There's a number of ways to do this.
We can also as we loop through here we can add in ID of correct or incorrect.
So that is probably the easiest way to do that.
So let's do that.
So two data ID and we're going to either do that it's true or false.
So that basically means we need to turn the operator for answer.
And let's check to see if the value of x is equal to the value of correct.
So we need to make sure that p.
Correct.
So if these are true then we know that we're going to have a value of true.
Otherwise it's going to be false.
So no we've got our answer there and we can add that into the data ID or data answer or whatever we
want to call it.
And there we go.
So let's let's quoter around there so I need that double quotes around there.
So let's double one single single double quotes.
So next we need to have the answer value.
So we've got P and answers and the value that we're getting is X..
So whatever the value of x is we want to just put it simply there and always use.
I always use this as a guide what's available in the console
and so also we did want to add in an event listener.
So let's go ahead and update that and add in a listener and we said we could add that in for output
because we already have output set up there.
So let's add to that listener for output and the listeners going to be click.
And if it gets clicked then we can do the function within here or we could just call it over to a function.
So it's actually just do the function in here.
So if it gets clicked then we're going to fire off our function and console log.
We'll get them to target
so I get that data.
So let's see what happens so let's refresh it and whenever we click these we get false true and false.
So what color is an apple and red.
So red is true.
So we know that this value is true.
And this is the one that we want to grab.
We can also set it by class if we want to.
So there's a number of different ways we don't have to do data I.D. So we know that if the user selects
a sensor This one is correct.
So what I want you to do now is to update the code so take the source code and pick out that data ID
value and check to see if it's true.
We also need to have a variable for score so let's add that in.
So score is going to start out at zero.
And we also might want to just track what we got right and what we got wrong where the user what the
user is picking up.
So we might want to do that as well.
So let's set up an array.
So this is going to be the user answers 3.
So whatever they're answering we're going to simply drop that answer into the array.
And this is going to give us the ability to kind of do the scoresheet at the end and do the entire tracking
of it.
And this is also going to give us the ability to kind of go back and let the user make updates as needed.
So for the next lesson go ahead and grab that data ID and I'm going to show you how we can do that and
how we can move to the next question afterwards after this one has been answered.
So all of that is coming up.